# Machine-Learning-Data-Gathering

This is the repository that handles the dataset and features of the User Behavior
through the interaction with the keyboard and the mouse for the purpose of
understanding a presence of an Insider Threat and Account Takeover

This repository contains the dataset used in profiling a user through their interaction
with their personal computer.

**Objectives:** Profiling Users for Machine Learning

**Type of Data:** CSV Files or other structured format

**How data were acquired:** Client Agents Running in Cross Platform Environment

**Data Format:** Raw Data

**Parameters for Data Collection:** To model the behaviour of each individual with his/her
computer, we will consider keyboard, mouse

NB: The procedure of collecting the logs of keyboards and mouse activity of a user is sensitive because of the privacy implications of it.

## Account Takeover & Insider Threat

<details>

  <summary> Consent & Policy for Privacy Implications </summary>

- Notify the user that you will collecting their keystrokes and mouse activity for better interactions
- Notify them about the retention and scope of logging their events
- Give them a chance to opt-out from the process if there is need required

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Data Computation & Implementation</summary>

- Ensure you don’t collect raw keystrokes, passwords, PIIs (Personal Identifiable information) instead collect the aggregate of featured computation within the endpoint (e.g. averages, variances) not raw event streams
- Compute these features on the endpoint and send anonymized scores to the ML systems.

</details>

### Data Collection

The agent which is the log/data collection components, will continuoulsy monitors the data generated when the
user interact with the keyboard and mouse. This information will then further be processed to obtain the
features

<details>
  <summary>Keyboard Event to Record</summary>

- Timestamp
- Key Press
- Key Release
- Key and Application in the forground

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Mouse Event to Record</summary>

- **Mouse Movement Events:** Timestamp, pointer x coordinate, pointer y coordinate, application in foreground.

- **Mouse Click Events:** Timestamp, pointer x coordinate, pointer y coordinate, button (left/right/middle), press/release, application in foreground.

- **Mouse Scroll Events:** Timestamp, pointer x coordinate, pointer y coordinate, movement x coordinate, movement y coordinate, application in foreground.

</details>

From the above events obtained from the keyboard and the mouse activities, we will then calaculate features
which will produce a value that will be used by the machine learning

#### Keyboard

<details>
  <summary>Features for Keyboard</summary>

    - timestamp: Timestamp that indicates when the vector was generated. It contains
    a numerical value corresponding to the milliseconds elapsed since the UNIX epoch,
    1st January 1970.

    - keystroke_counter: Total number of keystrokes generated by the user during the
    time window.

    - erase_keys_counter: Number of presses of erasing keys. That is, the keystrokes
    on ‘delete’ and ‘backspace’ keys.

    - erase_keys_percentage: Percentage of erasing keystrokes over the total number
    of keystrokes.

    - press_press_average_interval: Average time elapsed between two consecutive keystrokes,
    measured in milliseconds.

    - press_press_stddev_interval: Standard deviation on the time elapsed between two
    consecutive keystrokes, measured in milliseconds.

    - press_release_average_interval: Average time elapsed between the press and the
    release of all the keystrokes occurred during the time window, measured in milliseconds.

    - press_release_stddev_interval: Standard deviation of the time elapsed between the
    press and the release of all the keystrokes occurred during the time window, measured
    in milliseconds.

    - word_counter: Total number of words typed by the user during the time window. To
    determine if the user has written a word, alphanumeric keys are used as word characters
    and character separators list is used as word delimiter characters.

    - word_average_length: Average length of all the words written during the time window.

    - word_stddev_length: Standard deviation of the length of all the words written during
    the time window.

    - word_length_N: Set of features that represents the length histogram of the words written
    during the time window. N ranges from 1 to 11, the words larger than 11 characters are
    assigned to the 11 box.

    - keystrokes_key_Ki: Set of features that counts the number of keystrokes per key.
    Ki is the ith key in the list of all possible keys K.

    - press_release_average_Ki: Set of features that represents the average time elapsed
    between the press and the release of each key, measured in milliseconds. Again, Ki is
    each key in the set K of possible keys.

    - digraph_counter_KiKj: Set of features that counters the number of two keys combinations
    (digraph) introduced by the user. K is the list of all the possible keys, and KiKj represents
    each possible key pair. The features of non-typed digraphs during the time window will have 0
    value.

    - digraph_average_time_KiKj: Set of features that represents the average time elapsed to press
    each possible digraph, measured in milliseconds. Again, KiKj is each possible pair of keys.
</details>


#### Mouse

<details>
  <summary>Features for Mouse</summary>

    - click_speed_aveage_N: Set of features that represents the average time elapsed to complete a click using
    the mouse (button press-release time). N represents each one of the mouse buttons, 0 is left button click,
    1 is right button click, 2 is left button double click and 3 is middle button click. These features are
    measured in milliseconds.

    - click_speed_stddev_N: Set of features that represents the standard deviation of the time elapsed to
    complete a click using the mouse (button press-release time). N represents each one of the mouse buttons: 0
    is left button single click, 1 is right button click, 2 is left button double click and 3 is middle button
    click. These features are measured in milliseconds.

    - mouse_action_counter_N: Set of features that counters the number of events related to the mouse activity.
    N represents each possible action: 0, is a left button single click, 1 is a right button click, 2 is a left
    button double click, 3 is a scroll action, 4 is a mouse pointer movement, 5 is a drag or selection action
    (left press-movement-release), 6 is a middle button click.

    - mouse_position_histogram_N: Set of features that counters the number of mouse events occurred in each
    quadrant of the screen. The screen is organised in 9 quadrants, dividing the screen size into 3 values in
    width and 3 in height

    - mouse_movement_direction_ histogram_N: Set of features that represents the number of mouse movement
    events in each direction, organised in 8 cardinal points based on the movement angles

    - mouse_movement_length_ histogram_N: Set of features that represents the length histogram of the mouse
    movements occurred during the time window. N has 3 possible values, 1: the movement length is less than a
    third of the screen size, 2: the movement length is between 1/3 and 2/3 of the screen size, 3: the movement
    length is larger than 2/3 of the screen size.

    - mouse_average_movement_ duration: Average duration of the mouse movements, measured in milliseconds.

    - mouse_average_movement_ speed: Standard deviation of the duration of the mouse movements, measured in
    milliseconds.

    - mouse_average_movement_ speed_direction_N: Set of features that represents the histogram of movement
    average speeds per direction. like the movement direction histogram.
</details>